# CS-465
# Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
The major two frontend architectures that we used for this website were SPA's and Express HTML. With Express, everything works in a MVC type of model, where the model contains the data's representation, view controls how the look of the frontend appears and the controller controls the routing and what gets displayed to the user. With the SPA (Single-Page Application) everything is handled more on the users machine. This ensures that there is no need to refresh the webpage when using different features of the website. This creates a more seamless experience for the user but may take longer to load initially. With the SPA, every item is interconnected and there are many complex layers to its functionality, making it more difficult to decouple than the Express frontend. 

# Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
NoSQL and MongoDB are a useful choice of database when the data being received may not always be consistent. There is room for different types of data within a NoSQL database that makes it flexible for something like a vacation website.

# How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
JSON is the object notation for Javascript, not Javascript itself. This means that objects can be serialized into JSON and deserialized from JSON to recreate the objects in software. This is extremely useful for transferring data from one service to another, especially as each service may only accept the JSON, such as reading from the data base or displaying the data to the frontend.

# Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
There were several areas in the code where I decoupled processes to create more injectable and independent code. For example, when creating the Express frontend we starting by feeding the data directly to the functions for testing purposes. While this could continue to be done throughout the project, this makes the code very coupled together and makes it more difficult to maintain or change if needed. With extracting the data and turning into something standalone we were able to decouple the model from the view, ensuring that if we need to modify the model, it will not effect the view.

# Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
When creating new endpoints in the full stack environment, it is incredibly important to ensure that these endpoints work well before adding more features. The reason for this is that most features will rely on these endpoints. As an example, we had an endpoint for reading all of the trips from the Server. This endpoint was used by the SPA to load in the trips to be modified by the admin user. If this endpoint did not work however then there would be little means of testing the additional features of the SPA. Using API endpoint testers such as Postman is a good way to ensure that endpoints are working correctly, as we are able to isolate many aspects of what it being sent to the endpoint and we get to easily see what the data being returned will be.

# How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
This course has allowed me to learn a deeper dive into the field of full stack development. I got a view of what the full stack environment looks like with a modern stack framework and I had the opportunity to apply all of my knowledge to create a working website. This course has allowed me to grow my skills towards a career field that is in need of full stack developers.
